docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

**Conduit** is configured using a TOML file. The configuration file is loaded from the path specified by the `CONDUIT_CONFIG` environment variable.

> **Note:** The configuration file is required to run Conduit. If the `CONDUIT_CONFIG` environment variable is not set, Conduit will exit with an error.

> **Note:** If you update the configuration file, you must restart Conduit for the changes to take effect

> **Note:** You can also configure Conduit by using `CONDUIT_{field_name}` environment variables. To set values inside a table, use `CONDUIT_{table_name}_{field_name}`. Example: `CONDUIT_WELL_KNOWN_CLIENT="https://matrix.example.org"`

Conduit's configuration file is divided into the following sections:

- [Global](#global)
    - [TLS](#tls)
    - [Proxy](#proxy)


## Global

The `global` section contains the following fields:

> **Note:** The `*` symbol indicates that the field is required, and the values in **parentheses** are the possible values

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `address` | `string` | The address to bind to | `"127.0.0.1"` |
| `port` | `integer` | The port to bind to | `8000` |
| `tls` | `table` | See the [TLS configuration](#tls) | N/A |
| `server_name`_*_ | `string` | The server name | N/A |
| `database_backend`_*_ | `string` | The database backend to use (`"rocksdb"` *recommended*, `"sqlite"`) | N/A |
| `database_path`_*_ | `string` | The path to the database file/dir | N/A |
| `db_cache_capacity_mb` | `float` | The cache capacity, in MB | `300.0` |
| `enable_lightning_bolt` | `boolean` | Add `⚡️` emoji to end of user's display name | `true` |
| `allow_check_for_updates` | `boolean` | Allow Conduit to check for updates | `true` |
| `conduit_cache_capacity_modifier` | `float` | The value to multiply the default cache capacity by | `1.0` |
| `rocksdb_max_open_files` | `integer` | The maximum number of open files | `1000` |
| `pdu_cache_capacity` | `integer` | The maximum number of Persisted Data Units (PDUs) to cache | `150000` |
| `cleanup_second_interval` | `integer` | How often conduit should clean up the database, in seconds | `60` |
| `max_request_size` | `integer` | The maximum request size, in bytes | `20971520` (20 MiB) |
| `max_concurrent_requests` | `integer` | The maximum number of concurrent requests | `100` |
| `max_fetch_prev_events` | `integer` | The maximum number of previous events to fetch per request if conduit notices events are missing | `100` |
| `allow_registration` | `boolean` | Opens your homeserver to public registration | `false` |
| `registration_token` | `string` | The token users need to have when registering to your homeserver | N/A |
| `allow_encryption` | `boolean` | Allow users to enable encryption in their rooms | `true` |
| `allow_federation` | `boolean` | Allow federation with other servers | `true` |
| `allow_room_creation` | `boolean` | Allow users to create rooms | `true` |
| `allow_unstable_room_versions` | `boolean` | Allow users to create and join rooms with unstable versions | `true` |
| `default_room_version` | `string` | The default room version (`"6"`-`"10"`)| `"10"` |
| `allow_jaeger` | `boolean` | Allow Jaeger tracing | `false` |
| `tracing_flame` | `boolean` | Enable flame tracing | `false` |
| `proxy` | `table` | See the [Proxy configuration](#proxy) | N/A |
| `jwt_secret` | `string` | The secret used in the JWT to enable JWT login without it a 400 error will be returned | N/A |
| `trusted_servers` | `array` | The list of trusted servers to gather public keys of offline servers | `["matrix.org"]` |
| `log` | `string` | The log verbosity to use | `"warn"` |
| `turn_username` | `string` | The TURN username | `""` |
| `turn_password` | `string` | The TURN password | `""` |
| `turn_uris` | `array` | The TURN URIs | `[]` |
| `turn_secret` | `string` | The TURN secret | `""` |
| `turn_ttl` | `integer` | The TURN TTL in seconds | `86400` |
| `media` | `table` | See the [media configuration](#media) | See the [media configuration](#media) |
| `emergency_password` | `string` | Set a password to login as the `conduit` user in case of emergency | N/A |
| `well_known` | `table` | Used for [delegation](delegation.md) | See [delegation](delegation.md) |

### Media
The `media` table is used to configure how media is stored and where. Currently, there is only one available
backend, that being `filesystem`. The backend can be set using the `backend` field. Example:
```
[global.media]
backend = "filesystem" # the default backend
```

#### Filesystem backend
The filesystem backend has the following fields:
- `path`: The base directory where all the media files will be stored (defaults to
  `${database_path}/media`)

##### Example:
```
[global.media]
backend = "filesystem"
path = "/srv/matrix-media"
```

### TLS
The `tls` table contains the following fields:
- `certs`: The path to the public PEM certificate
- `key`: The path to the PEM private key

#### Example
```toml
[global.tls]
certs = "/path/to/cert.pem"
key = "/path/to/key.pem"
```


### Proxy
You can choose what requests conduit should proxy (if any). The `proxy` table contains the following fields

#### Global
The global option will proxy all outgoing requests. The `global` table contains the following fields:
- `url`: The URL of the proxy server
##### Example
```toml
[global.proxy.global]
url = "https://example.com"
```

#### By domain
An array of tables that contain the following fields:
- `url`: The URL of the proxy server
- `include`: Domains that should be proxied (assumed to be `["*"]` if unset)
- `exclude`: Domains that should not be proxied (takes precedent over `include`)

Both `include` and `exclude` allow for glob pattern matching.
##### Example
In this example, all requests to domains ending in `.onion` and `matrix.secretly-an-onion-domain.xyz` 
will be proxied via `socks://localhost:9050`, except for domains ending in `.myspecial.onion`. You can add as many `by_domain` tables as you need.
```toml
[[global.proxy.by_domain]]
url = "socks5://localhost:9050"
include = ["*.onion", "matrix.secretly-an-onion-domain.xyz"]
exclude = ["*.clearnet.onion"]
```

### Example

> **Note:** The following example is a minimal configuration file. You should replace the values with your own.

```toml
[global]
{{#include ../conduit-example.toml:22:}}
```

Commit message:

feat(media): deep hashed directory structure

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

**Conduit** is configured using a TOML file. The configuration file is loaded from the path specified by the `CONDUIT_CONFIG` environment variable.

> **Note:** The configuration file is required to run Conduit. If the `CONDUIT_CONFIG` environment variable is not set, Conduit will exit with an error.

> **Note:** If you update the configuration file, you must restart Conduit for the changes to take effect

> **Note:** You can also configure Conduit by using `CONDUIT_{field_name}` environment variables. To set values inside a table, use `CONDUIT_{table_name}_{field_name}`. Example: `CONDUIT_WELL_KNOWN_CLIENT="https://matrix.example.org"`

Conduit's configuration file is divided into the following sections:

- [Global](#global)
    - [TLS](#tls)
    - [Proxy](#proxy)


## Global

The `global` section contains the following fields:

> **Note:** The `*` symbol indicates that the field is required, and the values in **parentheses** are the possible values

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `address` | `string` | The address to bind to | `"127.0.0.1"` |
| `port` | `integer` | The port to bind to | `8000` |
| `tls` | `table` | See the [TLS configuration](#tls) | N/A |
| `server_name`_*_ | `string` | The server name | N/A |
| `database_backend`_*_ | `string` | The database backend to use (`"rocksdb"` *recommended*, `"sqlite"`) | N/A |
| `database_path`_*_ | `string` | The path to the database file/dir | N/A |
| `db_cache_capacity_mb` | `float` | The cache capacity, in MB | `300.0` |
| `enable_lightning_bolt` | `boolean` | Add `⚡️` emoji to end of user's display name | `true` |
| `allow_check_for_updates` | `boolean` | Allow Conduit to check for updates | `true` |
| `conduit_cache_capacity_modifier` | `float` | The value to multiply the default cache capacity by | `1.0` |
| `rocksdb_max_open_files` | `integer` | The maximum number of open files | `1000` |
| `pdu_cache_capacity` | `integer` | The maximum number of Persisted Data Units (PDUs) to cache | `150000` |
| `cleanup_second_interval` | `integer` | How often conduit should clean up the database, in seconds | `60` |
| `max_request_size` | `integer` | The maximum request size, in bytes | `20971520` (20 MiB) |
| `max_concurrent_requests` | `integer` | The maximum number of concurrent requests | `100` |
| `max_fetch_prev_events` | `integer` | The maximum number of previous events to fetch per request if conduit notices events are missing | `100` |
| `allow_registration` | `boolean` | Opens your homeserver to public registration | `false` |
| `registration_token` | `string` | The token users need to have when registering to your homeserver | N/A |
| `allow_encryption` | `boolean` | Allow users to enable encryption in their rooms | `true` |
| `allow_federation` | `boolean` | Allow federation with other servers | `true` |
| `allow_room_creation` | `boolean` | Allow users to create rooms | `true` |
| `allow_unstable_room_versions` | `boolean` | Allow users to create and join rooms with unstable versions | `true` |
| `default_room_version` | `string` | The default room version (`"6"`-`"10"`)| `"10"` |
| `allow_jaeger` | `boolean` | Allow Jaeger tracing | `false` |
| `tracing_flame` | `boolean` | Enable flame tracing | `false` |
| `proxy` | `table` | See the [Proxy configuration](#proxy) | N/A |
| `jwt_secret` | `string` | The secret used in the JWT to enable JWT login without it a 400 error will be returned | N/A |
| `trusted_servers` | `array` | The list of trusted servers to gather public keys of offline servers | `["matrix.org"]` |
| `log` | `string` | The log verbosity to use | `"warn"` |
| `turn_username` | `string` | The TURN username | `""` |
| `turn_password` | `string` | The TURN password | `""` |
| `turn_uris` | `array` | The TURN URIs | `[]` |
| `turn_secret` | `string` | The TURN secret | `""` |
| `turn_ttl` | `integer` | The TURN TTL in seconds | `86400` |
| `media` | `table` | See the [media configuration](#media) | See the [media configuration](#media) |
| `emergency_password` | `string` | Set a password to login as the `conduit` user in case of emergency | N/A |
| `well_known` | `table` | Used for [delegation](delegation.md) | See [delegation](delegation.md) |

### Media
The `media` table is used to configure how media is stored and where. Currently, there is only one available
backend, that being `filesystem`. The backend can be set using the `backend` field. Example:
```toml
[global.media]
backend = "filesystem" # the default backend
```

#### Filesystem backend
The filesystem backend has the following fields:
- `path`: The base directory where all the media files will be stored (defaults to
  `${database_path}/media`)
- `directory_structure`: This is a table, used to configure how files are to be distributed within
  the media directory. It has the following fields:
  - `depth`: The number sub-directories that should be created for files (default: `2`)
  - `length`: How long the name of these sub-directories should be (default: `2`)
  For example, a file may regularly have the name `98ea6e4f216f2fb4b69fff9b3a44842c38686ca685f3f55dc48c5d3fb1107be4`
  (The SHA256 digest of the file's content). If `depth` and `length` were both set to `2`, this file would be stored
  at `${path}/98/ea/6e4f216f2fb4b69fff9b3a44842c38686ca685f3f55dc48c5d3fb1107be4`. If you want to instead have all
  media files in the base directory with no sub-directories, just set `directory_structure` to be empty, as follows:
  ```toml
  [global.media]
  backend = "filesystem"

  [global.media.directory_structure]
  ```

##### Example:
```toml
[global.media]
backend = "filesystem"
path = "/srv/matrix-media"

[global.media.directory_structure]
depth = 4
length = 2
```

### TLS
The `tls` table contains the following fields:
- `certs`: The path to the public PEM certificate
- `key`: The path to the PEM private key

#### Example
```toml
[global.tls]
certs = "/path/to/cert.pem"
key = "/path/to/key.pem"
```


### Proxy
You can choose what requests conduit should proxy (if any). The `proxy` table contains the following fields

#### Global
The global option will proxy all outgoing requests. The `global` table contains the following fields:
- `url`: The URL of the proxy server
##### Example
```toml
[global.proxy.global]
url = "https://example.com"
```

#### By domain
An array of tables that contain the following fields:
- `url`: The URL of the proxy server
- `include`: Domains that should be proxied (assumed to be `["*"]` if unset)
- `exclude`: Domains that should not be proxied (takes precedent over `include`)

Both `include` and `exclude` allow for glob pattern matching.
##### Example
In this example, all requests to domains ending in `.onion` and `matrix.secretly-an-onion-domain.xyz` 
will be proxied via `socks://localhost:9050`, except for domains ending in `.myspecial.onion`. You can add as many `by_domain` tables as you need.
```toml
[[global.proxy.by_domain]]
url = "socks5://localhost:9050"
include = ["*.onion", "matrix.secretly-an-onion-domain.xyz"]
exclude = ["*.clearnet.onion"]
```

### Example

> **Note:** The following example is a minimal configuration file. You should replace the values with your own.

```toml
[global]
{{#include ../conduit-example.toml:22:}}
```
